docs/UPDATE_PROTOCOLS.md, before:

*Procedures to follow, when updating something.*

# Wemi Version update
1. Change versions in
	- [BuildScript](../build/build.kt)
	- [Wemi](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/Wemi.kt)
	- [IDEA plugin](../ide-plugins/WemiForIntelliJ/resources/META-INF/plugin.xml)
2. Update changes in
    - [Changelog](../CHANGES.md)
    - [IDEA plugin changelog](../ide-plugins/WemiForIntelliJ/resources/META-INF/plugin.xml)
3. Create and push git commit
4. Create github release, with binary builds of IDEA plugin and wemi itself
5. Create commit that changes versions to <NEXT_VERSION>-SNAPSHOT
6. Update wemi used by Wemi, update build script, if needed, commit and push

# New Kotlin Version
1. Add it to [CompilerProjects in build script](../build/build.kt)
2. Create relevant [plugin interface project](../src/main-kotlinc)
3. Add it to [KotlinCompilerVersion enum](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/compile/KotlinCompiler.kt)
4. Consider bumping up the [WemiKotlinVersion used for build scripts](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/Wemi.kt).
This propagates to `kotlinVersion` key, used to compile user projects.

# New Java Version
- Check [BytecodeUtil](../plugins/jvm-hotswap/src/main/kotlin/wemiplugin/jvmhotswap/agent/BytecodeUtil.java)
	and update `.class` parsing logic.
- Update `javadocUrl` in [KeyDefaults](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/KeyDefaults.kt)

Commit message:

IDE: Add convert to Wemi action
Took 5 hours 26 minutes

docs/UPDATE_PROTOCOLS.md, after:

*Procedures to follow, when updating something.*

# Wemi Version update
1. Change versions in
	- [BuildScript](../build/build.kt)
	- [Wemi](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/Wemi.kt)
	- [IDEA plugin](../ide-plugins/WemiForIntelliJ/resources/META-INF/plugin.xml)
2. Update changes in
    - [Changelog](../CHANGES.md)
    - [IDEA plugin changelog](../ide-plugins/WemiForIntelliJ/resources/META-INF/plugin.xml)
3. Create and push git commit
4. Create github release, with binary builds of IDEA plugin and wemi itself
	1. ./wemi assembly
	2. WemiForIntelliJ jar (must be done second so that it can bundle wemi binary through symlink)
5. Create commit that changes versions to <NEXT_VERSION>-SNAPSHOT
6. Update wemi used by Wemi, update build script, if needed, commit and push

# New Kotlin Version
1. Add it to [CompilerProjects in build script](../build/build.kt)
2. Create relevant [plugin interface project](../src/main-kotlinc)
3. Add it to [KotlinCompilerVersion enum](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/compile/KotlinCompiler.kt)
4. Consider bumping up the [WemiKotlinVersion used for build scripts](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/Wemi.kt).
This propagates to `kotlinVersion` key, used to compile user projects.

# New Java Version
- Check [BytecodeUtil](../plugins/jvm-hotswap/src/main/kotlin/wemiplugin/jvmhotswap/agent/BytecodeUtil.java)
	and update `.class` parsing logic.
- Update `javadocUrl` in [KeyDefaults](../src/main/kotlin/wemi/KeyDefaults.kt)
